<h1>Trie Tree</h1>
<p> Tries were first  described  by  René  de  la  Briandais  in  1959.The  term trie was coined two years later by Edward Fredkin. Data structure used to implement phonebook in C language is trie trees. In computer science, a trie, also called digital tree and sometimes radix tree or prefix tree (as they can be searched by prefixes), is a kind of search tree—an ordered tree data   structure that   is    used    to    store    a dynamic   set or associative array where the keys are usually strings. A Trie is a special data structure used to store strings that can be visualized like a graph. It consists of nodes and edges. Each node consists of at max 26 children and edges connect each parent node to its children. These 26 pointers are nothing but pointers for each of the 26 letters of the English alphabet A separate edge is maintained for every edge.</p>
<hr>
<h2>Why Trie Tree ??</h2>
<p>A trie has a number of advantages over binary search trees and other data structure. A trie can also be used to replace a hash table.  Unlike    a binary search tree, no node in the tree stores the key associated with that node; instead, its position in the tree defines the key with which it is associated. All the descendants of a node have a common prefix of the string associated with that node, and the root is associated with the empty string. Values are not necessarily associated with every node. Rather, values tend only to be associated with leaves, and with some inner nodes that correspond to keys of interest. A trie tree provide an alphabetical ordering of each character of string by key. Moreover, there are no collisions of different keys in a trie tree. There is no need to provide a hash function or to change hash functions as more keys are added to a trie.</p>
<br>
<br>
<h4>Time Complexity</h4>
<p>Trie is an efficient information retrieval data structure. Using Trie, search complexities can be brought to optimal limit (key length). If we store keys in binary search tree, a well-balanced BST will need time proportional to M
is * log N, where M is maximum string length and N is number of keys in tree. Using Trie, we can search the key in O(M) time. However, the penalty is on Trie storage requirements. Searching up data in a trie is faster in the worst case, O(m) time (where m is the length of a search string), compared to an imperfect hash table. An imperfect hash table can have key collisions. A key collision is the hash function mapping of different keys to the same position in a hash table. The worst-case lookup speed in an imperfect hash table is O(N) time, but far more typically is O(1), with O(m) time spent evaluating the hash.

</p>